---
layout: post
title:  "Blog #10: Network II"
date:   2021-11-09 13:15:25 -0500 
categories: blogs
---

## Network: What's next?

Okay, we plotted the relationships. So what? 

**Construct network with regard to degree (# of connections)**

As you may have noticed with the [previous blog][b], each node has its degrees, each with a weight value. The higher the sum, the more connected and/or more frequently connected a node is. This was already used to organize the graph, and simply by adding a size ad color change with respect to the weight will give us a network with much clearer idea of what is the more significant subject of discussion in the text, which is far more useful than a plain network.

**Graphing significance**

Likewise, we can also fetch this data from the network and plot a chart instead, which could be more user friendly.

**Thoughts about potentials**

Looking at the [text version][txt] of the relationship, I see that there are also descriptions of "what is the relationship", which is again much more useful than a line only indicating "there is an relationship". It might be feasible to add additional tags (manually or with robots) such as "son", "rival", "subordinate". On top of that, it may not be entirely impossible with smaller bodies of text (like a chapter of Gibbon instead of a book), to add *directions* on the relationships. This is however really demanding for the xml used, since what used to be 1 relationship would become at least two and very likely even more, as we narrow down with the classification.

[b]:/DH/blogs/2021/11/08/Blog-9.html
[txt]:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gregorycrane/DHFall2021/master/texts/gibbon-bury-newyork1906-index.txt