---
layout: post
title:  "Blog #8: Text Alignment & Dependency Trees"
date:   2021-11-07 13:15:25 -0500 
categories: blogs
---

This Blog features two utilization of universal dependencies.

## Manual Text Alignment

*Decline and Fall*, like many other works, uses sources more than one language. Provided with the original text, its translation, and their dependency notations, even a person who cannot understand the language could attempt at aligning the two texts on a word by word basis with some success. With enough effort, part of this could even be done when the two languages has significant difference in their grammar rules.

    note: it should be feasible to train models to perform this kind of alignment, to have much greater speed and a consistent but less optimal accuracy.

Link [here][co].

## Dependency Tree

Comparisons like the one in the [previous post][GB] can also be done within the text. In this particular case, we compared how Gibbon described Greeks and Romans differently. This was done by looking at the words associated with "Greek" or "Roman" (hence the "trees").

Link [here][co1].

## Exercise #5

***Information***

*Those who lived in the time of discussion  (AD ~39X?):*

**Theodosius I:** Roman emperor known for  making christianity state religion of the Roman Empire 

**Synesius:** Bishop, Cyrene (city near Libya), excommunicated Andronicus and supporters and his families

**Andronicus:** president of Ancient Libya, was excommunicated

*Other references:*

**St. Athanasius (AD290-373):** 20th catholic Bishop

**Phalaris:** tyrant of Akragas in Sicily, from approximately 570 to 554 BC.

**Sennacherib(reigned BC 681 to 705):** Sennacherib was the king of the Neo-Assyrian Empire (Middle East)

**Hercules(born1286 BC):** Greek hero figure that was adapted to Roman culture, Greece& the Mediterranean region

*Time periods:* 

about 4-5.(depending on whether to see Phalaris, and Sennacherib as distinct periods or not) 

 

***Footnotes:***

Most offered a more detailed account of a stated event along with some degrees of evaluation, which deviates from the general topic of discussion:

114 discussed the penitential jurisprudence in further detail;

115 further discussed the excommunication prompted by St. Athanasius;

116 explained and evaluated the relationship between Hercules and Synesius

117 and 118 were details about Synesius

119-121 were details and evaluations regarding the excommunication of Andronicus 

 

***Sources used:***

 the most common was Synesius' Epistolae, others include geographical works in 117, hist. (which seems to be other historical reseaches?) in 114

[co]:https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1XvU5fbwiPbCyEWAxOgqOchtgx4Rbd8UD?usp=sharing
[GB]:/DH/blogs/2021/11/06/Blog-7.html
[co1]:https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1uxK61hP3_k4tdQIHv9KHIW8iPmnDw5P2?usp=sharing